feat: Wallet Instance Attestation (#14)
italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs: docs/en/wallet-instance-attestation.rst

Dynamic view of the components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In this section is described the format of the Wallet Instance Attestation and
how it is issued by the Wallet Provider.

.. figure:: ../../images/dynamic_view_sequence_wallet_instance_attestation.svg
   :name: sequence diagram for Wallet Instance Attestation request
   :alt: The figure shows the sequence diagram for issuing a Wallet Instance Attestation.
         The steps will be described below.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/XPB1RzKm3CRl-IlCJY3nn7s7QOZ3118IGi0kkxYDLLcqJd2SLMz_FLvV6r7AnDN-_Fi-ExajXcfr6iEhh3XC24Rf2Kmh1QoMf4uTQGZPLTnpHZ6u-bv8hm0Br7tz7iUH33wAGwMdHJBpFpLVD3roN35p5qA5qusBhtsQZN7a9uBvekMLzo19GUbNfMBlib8X1_PAaUHveeIPJpTpTmrtPDjiNdrW8iE8Xc7kJgvoeyzh1VeaXYmimnyqi7EcyXP-qddnPAN9EruXYJcnsEhdf1yUrqbqC3MjnM3aOgxT5hmZ8NNrWix8MhQcH_zwMGyaIK-U5KwNgRNGB3yeFIF-kZYyBuNKE4a3VRh_5h0tVbpoTRiROLE__Y_eZOTP9W_RyZOpa5GM4YhbA2uy25fLQgrXkmDANDe7OClN7ktbXO-FyJ8jqluYpguDtVJSFc9y42MCPx04gJDa0Q5vz_LkIMATnjy0

- **Message 1**: The User initializes the Wallet Instance.

>   In particular, this process happens when the mobile application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  In particular, this process happens after the Wallet Instance installation and after the expiration of the Wallet Instance Attestation
```

   to the attestation itself.
5. **Authenticity/Genuineness of the Wallet Instance**:
   The Wallet Instance Attestation must guarantee the integrity
   and authenticity of the Wallet Instance, confirming that it was
   created and provided correctly by the Wallet Provider. ⚠️
6. **Ability to request multiple claims for several public keys**:
   Each single Wallet Instance should be able to request multiple attestations
   for different public keys associated with it. This requirement constitutes
   a privacy-preserving measure since the public key may be exploited as a
   tracking tool in the credentials’ disclosure phase
   (see also point 10 below).
7. **Can be used multiple times**:
   The Wallet Instance Attestation should be used multiple times
   during the validity period of the attestation, allowing for repeated
   authentication and authorization without the need to request
   new attestations with each interaction.
8. **Expiration**:
   The Wallet Instance Attestation should have a well-defined expiration date,
   after which it will no longer be considered valid, thus ensuring
   the security and updating of the attestations over time.

> 9.  **Disability in case of loss/deletion of the public key**:

Reviewer: Disability --> Revocation

>     If the public key associated with the Wallet Instance is lost or deleted,

Reviewer 2: how a holder may lost the public key, since this latter is derived from the private one?
I mean, the private key is not exportable, the public key cannot be lost since the private key can just be deleted

in this case the deletion of the key ...

Reviewer: Maybe it is a typo. @grausof do you mean private instead of public? In case of device lost or an unwanted deletion of the key.

Author: Yes, is a typo

  attestation signed by the Wallet Provider and proceeds with a formal
  verification.
- **Message 15**:The Wallet Instance Attestation is ready to be consumed.

Detail design
---------------

Format of the Wallet Instance Attestation Request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To obtain a Wallet Instance Attestation from the wallet
provider (backend) it is necessary to send a Wallet Instance Attestation
Request from the Wallet Instance containing the associated public key
and a ``nonce`` previously requested to avoid replay attacks.

Header
^^^^^^
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **key**                           | **value**                         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| alg                               | Algorithm to verify the token     |
|                                   | signature (es. ES256)             |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| kid                               | Key id of the Wallet Instance     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | type                              | Media type, in this case, we use  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| typ                               | Media type, in this case we use  |
```

|                                   | the value var+jwt (Verifiable     |
|                                   | Assertion Request JWT)            |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Payload
^^^^^^^
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
| **key** | **value**                                  |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| iss    || The public URL of the issuer              |
||        || concatenated with the thumbprint          |
||        || of the JWK of the Wallet Instance         |
||        || for which the attestation is              |
||        || being requested.                          |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| sub    || The public url of the wallet              |

> ||        || instance attestation issuer.              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|| sub    || The public url of the Wallet              |
||        || Instance attestation issuer.              |
````

> ||        || instance attestation issuer.              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|| sub    || The public url of the Wallet              |
||        || Instance attestation issuer.              |
```

    "exp": 1686652315
  }

Whose corresponding JWS is as follows:

.. code-block:: javascript

  eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InZiZVhKa3NNNDV4cGh0QU5uQ2lHNm1DeXVVNGpmR056b3BHdUt2b2dnOWMiLCJ0eXAiOiJ2YXIrand0In0.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.3KInOD_N4zh5PmXj9QhS5aIVFF8zxMl6326KxDTAFYMPJbweD2ny95Nk6y_xTCOioail2WHDLpF3Rju16Q7Z7Q

Verifiable through the public key of the Wallet Instance present in the JWT.

Format of the Wallet Instance Attestation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To ensure the above requirements, a JWT was chosen as the format for the
Wallet Instance Attestation. Let's see below the various fields that

> compose it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
compose it:
```

|                                   | This parameter is currently       |
|                                   | non-standard as it is not yet     |
|                                   | registered as `IANA Media         |
|                                   | Types <https://www.iana.org/assig |
|                                   | nments/media-types/media-types.xh |
|                                   | tml>`__.                          |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| x5c                               | Array containing the X.509        |
|                                   | certificate (and the entire chain |
|                                   | of certificates) used to certify  |
|                                   | the public key of the issuer.     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| trust_chain                       | | Array containing the JWS of the |
|                                   |   trust chain relating to its     |
|                                   |   issuer (Wallet Provider).       |
|                                   | | ⚠️ This topic will be addressed |

> |                                   |   at a later stage.               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Payload
^^^^^^^

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **key**                           | **value**                         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| iss                               | The public url of the wallet      |

> |                                   | instance attestation issuer. (see |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| iss                               | The public url of the Wallet      |
|                                   | Instance attestation issuer. (see |
```

|                                   | example below)                    |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| sub                               | The public url of the issuer      |
|                                   | concatenated with the thumbprint  |
|                                   | of the JWK of the Wallet Instance |
|                                   | for which the attestation is      |
|                                   | being issued.                     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| iat                               | Timestamp of issue of the         |

> |                                   | attestation.                      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| iat                               | Unix timestamp of attestation         |
|                                   | issuance time.                      |
```

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| exp                               | Attestation expiration timestamp. |
|                                   | A good practice to avoid security |
|                                   | problems is to have a limited     |

> |                                   | duration of the attestation.      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| exp                               | Unix timestamp regarding the expiration date time. |
|                                   | A good practice to avoid security |
|                                   | problems is to have a limited     |
|                                   | duration of the attestation.      |
```

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| type                              | String:                           |
|                                   | "WalletInstanceAttestation".      |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| policy_uri                        | Url to the privacy policy         |
|                                   | of the wallet.                    |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| tos_uri                           | Url to the terms                  |
|                                   | of use of the Wallet Provider.    |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| logo_uri                          | Logo url of the Wallet Provider.  |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | asc                               | Attested security context:        |

Reviewer 2: please say that this parameter is not standard yet and needs discussion

  }
  .
  {
    "iss": "https://wallet.italia.it",
    "sub": "https://wallet.italia.it/instance/vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c",
    "type": "WalletInstanceAttestation",
    "policy_uri": "https://wallet.italia.it/privacy_policy",
    "tos_uri": "https://wallet.italia.it/info_policy",
    "logo_uri": "https://wallet.italia.it/logo.svg",
    "asc": "https://wallet.italia.it/LoA/basic",
    "cnf":
    {
      "jwk":
      {
        "crv": "P-256",
        "kty": "EC",
        "x": "4HNptI-xr2pjyRJKGMnz4WmdnQD_uJSq4R95Nj98b44",
        "y": "LIZnSB39vFJhYgS3k7jXE4r3-CoGFQwZtPBIRqpNlrg",
        "kid": "vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c"
        }
      },

>       "vp_formats_supported": {

Reviewer 2: this must be outside the `cnf`

@grausof ^

        "jwt_vc_json": {
          "alg_values_supported": ["ES256K", "ES384"],
        },
        "jwt_vp_json": {
          "alg_values_supported": ["ES256K", "EdDSA"],

>         },

Reviewer 2: [Wallet Instance Attestation] Add mdoc_cbor in vp_formats_supported

in the wallet instance attestation non-normative example 
https://github.com/italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs/pull/14/files#diff-f44e126e298004564899b4b86fc1f5e074b5ca6a96e9f546b7a1ed8987e61735R396

>       "vp_formats_supported": {
>         "jwt_vc_json": {
>           "alg_values_supported": ["ES256K", "ES384"],
>         },
>         "jwt_vp_json": {
>           "alg_values_supported": ["ES256K", "EdDSA"],
>         },

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "authorization_endpoint": "eudiw:",
  "response_types_supported": [
    "vp_token"
  ],
  "vp_formats_supported": {
    "jwt_vp_json": {
      "alg_values_supported": ["ES256"]
    },
    "jwt_vc_json": {
      "alg_values_supported": ["ES256"]
    }
  },
  "request_object_signing_alg_values_supported": [
    "ES256"
  ],
  "presentation_definition_uri_supported": false,
```

Author: I disagree here. why must the wallet instance attestation have the `presentation_definition_uri_supported` parameter? 

From OIDC4VP:

> Boolean value specifying whether the Wallet supports the transfer of presentation_definition by reference, with true indicating support. If omitted, the default value is true.

Reviewer 2: Since we dont support It, considering we dont have security considerations for that and also that we look for definitions using a trust mark or the trust chain, anyway attested by a third party

Verifiable through the following public key (Wallet Provider Public Key)
obtained within the Entity Configuration of the Wallet Provider,
attested in the related trust chain.

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
  "kty": "EC",
  "x": "qrJrj3Af_B57sbOIRrcBM7br7wOc8ynj7lHFPTeffUk",
  "y": "1H0cWDyGgvU8w-kPKU_xycOCUNT2o0bwslIQtnPU6iM",
  "crv": "P-256"
  }

Format of the Wallet Provider Entity Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Wallet Provider Entity Configuration is a JWT containing all the metadata

> relating to the Wallet Provider such as the public keys, the supported algorithms,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Wallet Provider Entity Configuration is a JWS containing 
the public keys and the supported algorithms 
within the Wallet Provider metadata definition.
```

> the type of entity (in addition to the Wallet Provider, for example, it could also

Reviewer 2: Probably this would be moved to the wallet solution section, we'll discuss on that later on in the revision phase

|| token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_v || List of supported signature        |
|| alues_supported                   || algorithms.                        |
+------------------------------------+-------------------------------------+

Payload `federation_entity`
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| **key**           | **value**                              |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| organization_name | Organization name.                     |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| homepage_uri      | Organization website.                  |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| tos_uri           | Url to the terms of use.               |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| policy_uri        | Url to the privacy policy.             |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| logo_uri          | URL of the organization logo.          |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+

Non-normative example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: javascript

  {

>   "iss": "https://wallet.italia.it",

Reviewer 2: let's always use .example.it/org and never fqdns that could potentially collides

    the attestation automatically becomes invalid to prevent unauthorized
    use of the Wallet Instance. ⚠️
10. **Pseudonymisation**:
    The attestations are designed to be pseudonymised
    (i.e. they do not contain direct references to the person, so that it
    is not possible to identify them in the absence of additional information
    \- see art. 4(5) GDPR for a comprehensive definition).
    In the absence of such a measure, the use of the attestation on multiple
    RPs would constitute an appreciable risk, as it would theoretically
    allow the RPs to merge databases and track Users.
    This requirement enriches the measures adopted in accordance
    with art. 32 GDPR.

.. attention::
  ⚠️ Implementation of points no. 5 and 9 is still under discussion.
  This version assumes the authenticity and non-revocability of the Wallet Instance.

High-end design
---------------

Static view of the components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: ../../images/static_view_wallet_instance_attestation.svg
   :name: Wallet Solution schema
   :alt: the image shows how the Wallet Provider and the
         Wallet Instances are contained within the wallet

>          solution which is managed by the Wallet Provider

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         Wallet Instances are contained within the Wallet
         Solution which is managed by the Wallet Provider
```

   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/XP4nJuSm44VtVehBdxbnPp2iRYx6qTHIjR7SaVQ0-EqzaICDgN4ZBxpqzTUXiCkyJCaupvJXzbH2le4hiCW7A7rsAGM6ETCQn-E7RMSloi0OJzDC691FeL1QE1BMWZBeraW2Mbv4wK8VQayPT5yX9TgCQPclpdy676lnGF0ZN93DyVs3xVsrhOU70hCi0_JshwHXFJp-Rg4dIuECo96moD7xeBQbUKBEbE0EPEwuEWx6N2zj_uXqU8wbhVMhD3tjbAX1BYIl_mq0

Dynamic view of the components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We do not go into the details of the Wallet Provider as
it will be the subject of a subsequent design review. For now, we
will just analyze the format of the Wallet Instance Attestation and

> how it is issued by the Wallet Provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this section is described the format of the Wallet Instance Attestation and
how it is issued by the Wallet Provider.
```

.. figure:: ../../images/dynamic_view_sequence_wallet_instance_attestation.svg
   :name: sequence diagram for Wallet Instance Attestation request
   :alt: The figure shows the sequence diagram for issuing a Wallet Instance Attestation.
         The steps will be described below.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/XPB1RjH038RlynIc9v1OSU-XAk9GWOI44D1BBqxcLsIHU8B7qsZxz4pJx8WbhBZQdp_dT-OsEvkNQGolPkDXOdAa9t8h25myQPawM0XpfQINcTNfwdk6NH5dAkVrUnv7E7tKAjKUAxB8FvalbXubRfgb2w7GuQR2rtLQN7YK9z3omihcUz1aPFXLaFtTRCYemjuGeSyJEInok5cwQxg3dsRdRGzDS8xi79RkKAcwwFDMeJwfiwZey8UD_3WZlwMVEAuxnJ3LJgr0uvn4VTjNJJzub6h2RgbRoKwZPA_iAU0T55RfLJspM0wXgJuOdbj_NPBUvmnpIKfVN_BJf_jlWNkNntLlTvQT6_twlw8tzI3hv2w5d6O6Q1658kSzd6LGzc9ehU6KZpMkxPsmVL_x6PS3xuzysHPnVf7gBatTU6aFB3weWUEHF57gd4L9iPmzgLjeBDFu6m00

> - **Message 1**: The end User initializes the Wallet Instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Message 1**: The User initializes the Wallet Instance.
```

  In particular, this process happens when the mobile application

>   is launched and every time the end User wants to request or present

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  is launched and every time the User wants to request or present
```

  (disclose) a credential.
- **Message 2-3**: The Wallet Instance obtains metadata about its wallet

>   provider. Among these, we also find the list of supported algorithms,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Message 2-3**: The Wallet Instance obtains metadata about its Wallet
  Provider. Among these, we also find the list of supported algorithms,
```

  public keys, endpoints.
- **Message 4**: The Wallet Instance verifies that the Wallet Provider is
  trustworthy by resolving the provider's trust chain up to the anchor (⚠️

>   this step is skipped in this version).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  trustworthy by resolving the provider's trust chain up to the anchor
```

- **Message 5-7**: The Wallet Instance instantiates a new key pair on its TEE
  and requests a ``nonce`` from the Wallet Provider (as a measure
  against replay attacks).
- **Message 8**: The Wallet Instance generates a Wallet Instance Attestation

>   Request (JWT) signed with the private key associated with the public key

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Request, in JWS format, signed with the private key associated with the public key
```

  for which it wants to obtain the attestation containing the ``nonce`` and

>   other useful parameters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  all the required parameters.
```

- **Message 9-13**: The Wallet Instance sends the Wallet Instance Attestation
  Request to the Wallet Provider which verifies its validity and
  issues the signed attestation.
- **Message 13-14**:The Wallet Instance receives the Wallet Instance

>   attestation signed by the Wallet Provider and proceeds with a formal

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Attestation signed by the Wallet Provider and proceeds with a formal
```

  verification.
- **Message 15**:The Wallet Instance Attestation is ready to be consumed.

Detail design
---------------

Format of the Wallet Instance Attestation Request

> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer 2: here two headings are too much closer and doesn't give a good readability in the final rendering, could you please add introductionary text or change the headings levels, removing the one without any introductionary text?

To obtain a Wallet Instance Attestation from the wallet

> provider it is necessary to send a Wallet Instance Attestation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To obtain a Wallet Instance Attestation from the Wallet
Provider it is necessary to send a Wallet Instance Attestation
```

|                                   | signature (es. ES256)             |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| kid                               | Key id of the Wallet Instance     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| typ                               | Media type, in this case we use   |
|                                   | the value var+jwt (Verifiable     |
|                                   | Assertion Request JWT)            |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Payload
^^^^^^^
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
| **key** | **value**                                  |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| iss    || The public URL of the issuer              |
||        || concatenated with the thumbprint          |
||        || of the JWK of the Wallet Instance         |
||        || for which the attestation is              |
||        || being requested.                          |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| sub    || The public url of the Wallet              |

> ||        || Instance attestation issuer.              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|| sub    || The public url of the Wallet              |
||        || Instance Attestation issuer.              |
```

+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| jti    || Unique identifier of the request.         |
||        || This parameter will be used to            |
||        || avoid replay attacks.                     |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+

> | type    | WalletInstanceAttestationRequest           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| type    | String. It must be set to ``WalletInstanceAttestationRequest``           |
```

+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| cnf    || This parameter will contain the           |
||        || configuration of the wallet               |

> ||        || instance in JSON format. Among            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||        || configuration of the Wallet               |
||        || Instance in JSON format. Among            |
```

||        || the mandatory attributes there            |
||        || will be the jwk parameter                 |
||        || containing the public key of the          |
||        || Wallet Instance. It will also             |
||        || contain all the information               |
||        || useful for the Wallet Provider            |
||        || to verify that the app is genuine.        |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+

Non-normative example

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below a non-normative example of the Wallet Instance Attestation request where the decoded JWS headers and payload are separated by a comma:
```

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c",
    "typ": "var+jwt"
  }
  .
  {
    "iss": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/instance/vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c",

>     "sub": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/",

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "sub": "https://wallet-provider.example.org",
```

    "cnf": {
      "jwk": {
        "crv": "P-256",
        "kty": "EC",
        "x": "4HNptI-xr2pjyRJKGMnz4WmdnQD_uJSq4R95Nj98b44",
        "y": "LIZnSB39vFJhYgS3k7jXE4r3-CoGFQwZtPBIRqpNlrg",
        "kid": "vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c"
      }
    },
    "iat": 1686645115,
    "exp": 1686652315
  }

Whose corresponding JWS is as follows:

.. code-block:: javascript

  eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InZiZVhKa3NNNDV4cGh0QU5uQ2lHNm1DeXVVNGpmR056b3BHdUt2b2dnOWMiLCJ0eXAiOiJ2YXIrand0In0.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.t3HL_nrqe_3L8C1XrtgEFdb8M2q1_Nmwa-Ij6vL2digbu34JF2N5GB3dc_XIRPjZbG7BeQJOW6OZ1sSiWJWgjA

> Verifiable through the public key of the Wallet Instance present in the JWT.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Whose corresponding JWS is verifiable through the public key of the Wallet Instance present..

Herein a JWS representation of the Wallet Instance Attestation request object:

.. code-block:: javascript

  eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InZiZVhKa3NNNDV4cGh0QU5uQ2lHNm1DeXVVNGpmR056b3BHdUt2b2dnOWMiLCJ0eXAiOiJ2YXIrand0In0.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.t3HL_nrqe_3L8C1XrtgEFdb8M2q1_Nmwa-Ij6vL2digbu34JF2N5GB3dc_XIRPjZbG7BeQJOW6OZ1sSiWJWgjA

```

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| type                              | Media type, in this case we use   |
|                                   | the value va+jwt (Verifiable      |
|                                   | Assertion JWT).                   |
|                                   | This parameter is currently       |
|                                   | non-standard as it is not yet     |
|                                   | registered as `IANA Media         |
|                                   | Types <https://www.iana.org/assig |
|                                   | nments/media-types/media-types.xh |
|                                   | tml>`__.                          |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| x5c                               | Array containing the X.509        |
|                                   | certificate (and the entire chain |
|                                   | of certificates) used to certify  |
|                                   | the public key of the issuer.     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | trust_chain                       | | Array containing the JWS of the |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| trust_chain                       |  Array containing the JWS of the |
```

|                                   |   trust chain relating to its     |
|                                   |   issuer (Wallet Provider).       |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Payload
^^^^^^^

+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| **key**                   | **value**                                 |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| iss                      || The public url of the Wallet             |
||                          || Instance attestation issuer. (see        |

> ||                          || example below)                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||                          || Instance attestation issuer. See        |
||                          || the example below in this section     |
```

||                          || the OAuth 2.0 response_type values       |
||                          || that this OP supports.                   |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| vp_formats_supported     || JSON object containing                   |
||                          || ``jwt_vp_json`` and ``jwt_vc_json``      |
||                          || supported algoithms array                |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| request_object_signing   || JSON array containing a list of the      |
|| _alg_values_supported    || JWS signing algorithms (alg values)      |
||                          || supported by the OP for Request Objects  |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| presentation_definition  || Boolean value specifying whether the OP  |
|| _uri_supported           || supports the transfer of                 |
||                          || presentation_definition by               |
||                          || reference, with true indicating support. |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note::
   The claim ``asc`` (Attested Security Context) is under discussion and must be intended as experimental.
```

Signature
^^^^^^^^^

> The JWT (Wallet Instance Attestation) thus composed is signed using the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Wallet Instance Attestation JWS is signed using the
```

private key of the Wallet Provider present to which the Wallet Provider

> has access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
private key of the Wallet Provider.
```

> Non-normative example
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Below is an example of Wallet Instance Attestation:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "5t5YYpBhN-EgIEEI5iUzr6r0MR02LnVQ0OmekmNKcjY",
    "trust_chain": [
      "eyJhbGciOiJFUz...6S0A",
      "eyJhbGciOiJFUz...jJLA",
      "eyJhbGciOiJFUz...H9gw",
    ],
    "typ": "va+jwt",

>     "x5c": ["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"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    "x5c": ["MIIBjDCC ... XFehgKQA=="]
```

> Verifiable through the following public key (Wallet Provider Public Key)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verifiable through the Wallet Provider Public Key, where a non-normative example is therein represented in JWK format. The Public key is 
```

||                                   || for the Wallet Provider the token |
||                                   || is equivalent only to the wallet  |
||                                   || instance attestation, therefore   |
||                                   || this attribute will contain an    |
||                                   || array with only one element:      |
||                                   || client-assertion-type:            |
||                                   || ``jwt-key-attestation``.          |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|| token_endpoint_auth_methods_suppo || Supported authentication method   |
|| rted                              || for the endpoint token. In our    |
||                                   ||                                   |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|| token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_v || List of supported signature       |
|| alues_supported                   || algorithms.                       |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. note::
   The parameter `asc_values_supported` is experimental and still under discussion.
```

Payload `federation_entity`
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| **key**           | **value**                              |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| organization_name | Organization name.                     |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| homepage_uri      | Organization website.                  |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| tos_uri           | Url to the terms of use.               |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| policy_uri        | Url to the privacy policy.             |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| logo_uri          | URL of the organization logo.          |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+

> Non-normative example
> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below a non-normative example of the Entity Configuration.
```

Verifiable through the public key of the Wallet Provider itself.

Endpoints
~~~~~~~~~
The Wallet Provider that issues the Wallet Instance Attestations must

> make available a series of APIs in REST format that follow the OpenId

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
make available a series of APIs in REST format that follow the OpenID
```

.. _wallet-instance-attestation.rst:

Wallet Instance Attestation
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

Inside a **Wallet Solution** and, especially with regards
to the **Wallet Instance**, it is essential to ensure the **authenticity,
integrity, security, privacy and trust** in the use of the latter both
by the User and the services connected to it, such as the
**PID Provider** or one **Relying Party**.

General Properties
------------------

> The goal is:

Reviewer: Maybe we can also add the check on the rooted device? @grausof

Reviewer 2: moved to issue

- Ensure that the Wallet Instance maintains a level of **integrity**,
  capable of preventing any attempts of manipulation or forgery
  by unauthorized third parties.

> - Make sure the private keys have been generated and stored securely

Reviewer: I think that the wallet provider is only able to attest the TEE capability. The Wallet Solution must ensure that the private keys are securely stored.

  within a **trusted execution environment** (TEE).
- Verify that the Wallet Instance is **authentic**, i.e. made available
  by an accredited body that complies with the Trust Model.

> To guarantee the above, it is necessary for each

Reviewer: I suggest to change in:
The Wallet Provider issues a certificate of conformity, assuring that the above mentioned security and trust goals are fulfilled.

> To guarantee the above, it is necessary for each

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In compliance of the above mentioned requirements, it is necessary for each
```

Wallet Instance to issue a certificate of conformity,
guaranteeing its security and compliance with the Trust Model.

This attestation is called **Wallet Instance Attestation**
and must be electronically signed by its issuer.

> .. hint::

Reviewer 3: Could it be useful to specify the wallet provider is the actual leaf in the entity federation tree?

Reviewer 2: it is already defined in the trust model but we can improve with a ref to the relevant trust model sections

Dynamic view of the components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
In this section is described the format of the Wallet Instance Attestation and
how it is issued by the Wallet Provider.

.. figure:: ../../images/dynamic_view_sequence_wallet_instance_attestation.svg
   :name: sequence diagram for Wallet Instance Attestation request
   :alt: The figure shows the sequence diagram for issuing a Wallet Instance Attestation.
         The steps will be described below.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/XPB1RjH038RlynIc9v1OSU-XAk9GWOI44D1BBqxcLsIHU8B7qsZxz4pJx8WbhBZQdp_dT-OsEvkNQGolPkDXOdAa9t8h25myQPawM0XpfQINcTNfwdk6NH5dAkVrUnv7E7tKAjKUAxB8FvalbXubRfgb2w7GuQR2rtLQN7YK9z3omihcUz1aPFXLaFtTRCYemjuGeSyJEInok5cwQxg3dsRdRGzDS8xi79RkKAcwwFDMeJwfiwZey8UD_3WZlwMVEAuxnJ3LJgr0uvn4VTjNJJzub6h2RgbRoKwZPA_iAU0T55RfLJspM0wXgJuOdbj_NPBUvmnpIKfVN_BJf_jlWNkNntLlTvQT6_twlw8tzI3hv2w5d6O6Q1658kSzd6LGzc9ehU6KZpMkxPsmVL_x6PS3xuzysHPnVf7gBatTU6aFB3weWUEHF57gd4L9iPmzgLjeBDFu6m00

- **Message 1**: The User initializes the Wallet Instance.
  In particular, this process happens when the mobile application

>   is launched and every time the User wants to request or present

Reviewer: When it is launched the first time after the installation and when it is expired. During the request or the presentation is under discussion. We have to take into account also the flows in presence and when the wallet instance does not have the connection.

Author: So how can we rephrase this sentence for now?

Reviewer 2: @fmarino-ipzs please provide a suggestion to be committed

  (disclose) a credential.
- **Message 2-3**: The Wallet Instance obtains metadata about its Wallet
  Provider. Among these, we also find the list of supported algorithms,
  public keys, endpoints.
- **Message 4**: The Wallet Instance verifies that the Wallet Provider is
  trustworthy by resolving the provider's trust chain up to the anchor
- **Message 5-7**: The Wallet Instance instantiates a new key pair on its TEE

>   and requests a ``nonce`` from the Wallet Provider (as a measure

Reviewer: Maybe in the sequence diagram the `nonce` request is missing. I suggest to put this step between steps 5 and 6

Reviewer 2: yes I agree

Author: Hadn't we decided to drop the `nonce` request and use `jti`?
https://github.com/italia/eidas-it-wallet-docs/issues/33#issuecomment-1604544512

Reviewer: The `nonce `parameter could be useful for Integrity API flow.

  against replay attacks).
- **Message 8**: The Wallet Instance generates a Wallet Instance Attestation
  Request, in JWS format, signed with the private key associated with the
  public key for which it wants to obtain the attestation containing
  the ``nonce`` and all the required parameters.
- **Message 9-13**: The Wallet Instance sends the Wallet Instance Attestation
  Request to the Wallet Provider which verifies its validity and
  issues the signed attestation.
- **Message 13-14**:The Wallet Instance receives the Wallet Instance
  Attestation signed by the Wallet Provider and proceeds with a formal
  verification.
- **Message 15**:The Wallet Instance Attestation is ready to be consumed.

> Detail design

Reviewer: I suggest to rearrange this section starting logically from the entity configuration and metadata fetching

||        || Wallet Instance. It will also        |
||        || contain all the information          |
||        || useful for the Wallet Provider       |
||        || to verify that the app is genuine.   |
+---------+---------------------------------------+

Below a non-normative example of the Wallet Instance Attestation
request where the decoded JWS headers and payload are separated by a comma:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c",
    "typ": "var+jwt"
  }
  .
  {
    "iss": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/instance/vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c",
    "sub": "https://wallet-provider.example.org",
    "jti": "6ec69324-60a8-4e5b-a697-a766d85790ea",
    "type": "WalletInstanceAttestationRequest",
    "cnf": {
      "jwk": {
        "crv": "P-256",
        "kty": "EC",
        "x": "4HNptI-xr2pjyRJKGMnz4WmdnQD_uJSq4R95Nj98b44",
        "y": "LIZnSB39vFJhYgS3k7jXE4r3-CoGFQwZtPBIRqpNlrg",
        "kid": "vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c"
      }
    },
    "iat": 1686645115,
    "exp": 1686652315
  }

Whose corresponding JWS is verifiable through the public key

> of the Wallet Instance present..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
of the Wallet Instance present.
```

Herein a JWS representation of the Wallet Instance Attestation request object:

.. code-block:: javascript

  eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InZiZVhKa3NNNDV4cGh0QU5uQ2lHNm1DeXVVNGpmR056b3BHdUt2b2dnOWMiLCJ0eXAiOiJ2YXIrand0In0.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.t3HL_nrqe_3L8C1XrtgEFdb8M2q1_Nmwa-Ij6vL2digbu34JF2N5GB3dc_XIRPjZbG7BeQJOW6OZ1sSiWJWgjA

Format of the Wallet Instance Attestation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To ensure the above requirements, a JWT was chosen as the format for the

Reviewer: Which requirements? If you are referring to the requirements in the Section Requirements, it is not clear to me how the requirements are satisfied by using JWT as a format for the Wallet Istance Attestation.

Reviewer 2: It is not the JWT format that satisfies the above mentioned requirements

it is an editorial issue

Author: it was an editorial error. I deleted that part

Wallet Instance Attestation. Let's see below the various fields that
compose it.

Header
^^^^^^

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **key**                           | **value**                         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| alg                               | Algorithm to verify the token     |
|                                   | signature (es. ES256).            |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | kid                               | Key id used by the wallet         |

Reviewer: This MUST be omitted if `x5c` is present. The same for the `x5c` parameter: it MUST be omitted if `kid` is present. 
Minor editorial change: wallet provider --> Wallet Provider (it is a defined term).

As you probably know I don't like to have `x5c` parameter here, but I understand that for interoperability reasons we must consider it. Let's discuss this point if you agree

Reviewer 2: in interop we need x5c as we agreed in the editor's call

|                                   | This parameter is currently       |
|                                   | non-standard as it is not yet     |
|                                   | registered as `IANA Media         |
|                                   | Types <https://www.iana.org/assig |
|                                   | nments/media-types/media-types.xh |
|                                   | tml>`__.                          |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| x5c                               | Array containing the X.509        |
|                                   | certificate (and the entire chain |
|                                   | of certificates) used to certify  |
|                                   | the public key of the issuer.     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| trust_chain                       | Array containing the JWS of the   |
|                                   | trust chain relating to its       |
|                                   | issuer (Wallet Provider).         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> Payload

Reviewer: This proposal consider the Wallet Attestation related claims and Metadata related claims at the same level. Having metadata related claims in a `metadata` field is more clear.

Author: Sorry, I don't understand what metadata you are referring to. Can you give me an example?

^^^^^^^

+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
| **key**                   | **value**                                 |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

> || iss                      || The public url of the Wallet             |
> ||                          || Instance attestation issuer. See         |
> ||                          || the example below in this section.       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|| iss                      || The public url of the Wallet             |
||                          || Provider.                                          |
```

> ||                          || the example below in this section        |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||                          || the example below in this section.       |
```

+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

> || sub                      || The public url of the issuer             |

Reviewer: public URL??? I think having "the thumbprint of the JWK in the `cnf` parameter" is enough

Reviewer 2: @grausof please reword

Author: OK, I also edit in the Wallet Instance Attestation

+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| exp                      || Unix timestamp regarding the             |
||                          || expiration date time.                    |
||                          || A good practice to avoid security        |
||                          || problems is to have a limited            |
||                          || duration of the attestation.             |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| type                     || String:                                  |
||                          || "WalletInstanceAttestation".             |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| policy_uri               || Url to the privacy policy                |
||                          || of the wallet.                           |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| tos_uri                  || Url to the terms                         |
||                          || of use of the Wallet Provider.           |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

> | logo_uri                  | Logo url of the Wallet Provider.          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|| logo_uri                  || Logo url of the Wallet Provider.          |
```

+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| asc                      || Attested security context:               |
||                          || Represents a level of "trust" of         |
||                          || the service containing a Level Of        |
||                          || Agreement defined in the metadata        |
||                          || of the Wallet Provider.                  |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| cnf                      || This parameter contains the ``jwk``      |
||                          || parameter                                |
||                          || with the public key of the Wallet        |

> ||                          || ecessary for the holder binding.         |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||                          || necessary for the holder binding.        |
```

+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| authorization_endpoint   || URL of the OP's OAuth 2.0                |
||                          || Authorization Endpoint.                  |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| response_types_supported || JSON array containing a list of          |
||                          || the OAuth 2.0 response_type values       |
||                          || that this OP supports.                   |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| vp_formats_supported     || JSON object containing                   |
||                          || ``jwt_vp_json`` and ``jwt_vc_json``      |

> ||                          || supported algoithms array.               |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||                          || supported algorithms array.              |
```

> ||                          || supported algoithms array                |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||                          || supported algoithms array.               |
```

+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
|| request_object_signing   || JSON array containing a list of the      |
|| _alg_values_supported    || JWS signing algorithms (alg values)      |

> ||                          || supported by the OP for Request Objects  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||                          || supported by the OP for Request Objects. |
```

+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

> || presentation_definition  || Boolean value specifying whether the OP  |

Reviewer: OP??? Maybe the Wallet Instance.

Reviewer 2: OP is misleading,
 please use Wallet Instance

> || presentation_definition  || Boolean value specifying whether the OP  |
> || _uri_supported           || supports the transfer of                 |
> ||                          || presentation_definition by               |
> ||                          || reference, with true indicating support. |
> +---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|| presentation_definition  || Boolean value specifying whether the     |
|| _uri_supported           || Wallet Instance supports the transfer of |
||                          || presentation_definition by               |
||                          || reference, with true indicating support. |
+---------------------------+-------------------------------------------+
```

  {
    "iss": "https://wallet-provider.example.org",
    "sub": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/instance/vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c",
    "type": "WalletInstanceAttestation",
    "policy_uri": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/privacy_policy",
    "tos_uri": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/info_policy",
    "logo_uri": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/logo.svg",
    "asc": "https://wallet-provider.example.org/LoA/basic",
    "cnf":
    {
      "jwk":
      {
        "crv": "P-256",
        "kty": "EC",
        "x": "4HNptI-xr2pjyRJKGMnz4WmdnQD_uJSq4R95Nj98b44",
        "y": "LIZnSB39vFJhYgS3k7jXE4r3-CoGFQwZtPBIRqpNlrg",
        "kid": "vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c"
      }
    },
    "authorization_endpoint": "eudiw:",
    "response_types_supported": [
      "vp_token"
    ],
    "vp_formats_supported": {
      "jwt_vp_json": {
        "alg_values_supported": ["ES256"]
      },
      "jwt_vc_json": {
        "alg_values_supported": ["ES256"]
      }
    },
    "request_object_signing_alg_values_supported": [
      "ES256"
    ],
    "presentation_definition_uri_supported": false,
    "iat": 1687281195,
    "exp": 1687288395
  }

> Whose corresponding JWS is as follows:

Reviewer: Is it really needed? I think that the non-normative example of the resulting JWS doesn't add any value here.

Author: I agree, I delete the JSW

> Verifiable through the Wallet Provider Public Key, where a non-normative

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verifiable through the Wallet Provider Public key, where a non-normative
```

example is therein represented in JWK format. The Public key is
obtained within the Entity Configuration of the Wallet Provider,
attested in the related trust chain.

> .. code-block:: javascript

Reviewer: Is `kid `missing here?

Reviewer 2: please add the `kid`

  {
  "kty": "EC",
  "x": "qrJrj3Af_B57sbOIRrcBM7br7wOc8ynj7lHFPTeffUk",
  "y": "1H0cWDyGgvU8w-kPKU_xycOCUNT2o0bwslIQtnPU6iM",
  "crv": "P-256"
  }

Format of the Wallet Provider Entity Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Wallet Provider Entity Configuration is a JWS containing
the public keys and the supported algorithms
within the Wallet Provider metadata definition.

> It broadly implements ``OIDC-FED`` protocol.

Reviewer: It is defined according to `[OIDC-FED] <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-federation-1_0.html>`_ and Section Trust Model of this specification.

> It broadly implements ``OIDC-FED`` protocol.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is defined according to `OpenID Connect Federation <https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-federation-1_0.html>`_ and Section Trust Model of this specification.
```

| sub                               | The public url of the Wallet      |
|                                   | Provider.                         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| iat                               | Configuration release timestamp.  |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| exp                               | Configuration expiration          |
|                                   | timestamp.                        |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| jwks                              | Containing the keys attribute     |
|                                   | which is an array of all the      |
|                                   | public keys associated with the   |
|                                   | domain (they could also match     |
|                                   | those of the Wallet Provider).    |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| metadata                          | This attribute will contain for   |
|                                   | each entity its own               |

> |                                   | configuration. In our case we     |

Reviewer: configuration --> metadata

> |                                   | configuration. In our case we     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                   | metadata type. In this case     |
```

> |                                   | will have for now the wallet      |

Reviewer: remove "for now" please

> |                                   | will have for now the wallet      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                   | the Wallet      |
```

> |                                   | provider entity contained within  |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                   | Provider metadata contained within  |
```

||                                   || which is an array of all the      |
||                                   || Wallet Provider's public keys.    |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|| token_endpoint                    || Endpoint for obtaining the Wallet |
||                                   || Instance Attestation.             |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|| asc_values_supported              || List of supported values for      |
||                                   || the certified security context.   |
||                                   || These values define a level of    |
||                                   || assurance about the security of   |
||                                   || the app. In particular we will    |
||                                   || mainly have 3 values associated   |
||                                   || with low, medium and high         |
||                                   || security. An attested security    |
||                                   || context is defined according to   |

> ||                                   || the proof that the wallet         |
> ||                                   || instance is able to send to the   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||                                   || the proof that the Wallet         |
||                                   || Instance is able to send to the   |
```

||                                   || Wallet Provider.                  |
||                                   || ⚠️ This parameter is not standard |
||                                   || and is still under discussion.    |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|| grant_types_supported             || The type of grants supported by   |
||                                   || the endpoint token. Therefore,    |
||                                   || for the Wallet Provider the token |

> ||                                   || is equivalent only to the wallet  |
> ||                                   || instance attestation, therefore   |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
||                                   || is equivalent only to the Wallet  |
||                                   || Instance attestation, therefore   |
```

||                                   || this attribute will contain an    |
||                                   || array with only one element:      |

> ||                                   || client-assertion-type:            |

Reviewer: remove `client-assertion-type:`

> ||                                   || client-assertion-type:            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

||                                   || ``jwt-key-attestation``.          |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+

> || token_endpoint_auth_methods_suppo || Supported authentication method   |

Reviewer: we must define what exactly is the supported client authentication method

Author: @peppelinux

> || rted                              || for the endpoint token. In our    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|| rted                              || for the endpoint token.           |
```

||                                   ||                                   |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+

> || token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_v || List of supported signature       |

Reviewer: Depending on the supported client authentication mechanism we must have this parameter.

Verifiable through the public key of the Wallet Provider itself.

Endpoints
~~~~~~~~~
The Wallet Provider that issues the Wallet Instance Attestations must
make available a series of APIs in REST format that follow the OpenID
Federation standard.

Metadata
^^^^^^^^
A **GET /.well-known/openid-federation endpoint** for retrieving the Wallet

> Provider Entity Configuration

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Provider Entity Configuration.
```

Wallet Instance Attestation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A second **POST /token** endpoint that takes two parameters as input:

``grant_type`` which in our case is a string:
``urn:ietf:params:oauth:client-assertion-type:jwt-key-attestation``

``assertion``` which contains the signed JWT of the Wallet Instance Attestation

> Request

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Request.
```

> The response will then contain the Wallet Instance Attestation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The response will then contain the Wallet Instance Attestation.
```

  and requests a nonce from the backend wallet (as a measure against replay
  attacks)
- **Message 8**: The wallet instance generates a Wallet Instance Attestation
  Request (JWT) signed with the private key associated with the public key
  for which it wants to obtain the attestation containing the nonce and
  other useful parameters.
- **Message 9-13**: The wallet instance sends the Wallet Instance Attestation
  Request to the backend wallet which verifies its validity and issues the
  signed attestation.
- **Message 13-14**:The wallet instance receives the wallet instance
  attestation signed by the wallet provider and proceeds with a formal
  verification
- **Message 15**:The wallet instance attestation is ready to be consumed

Detail design
---------------

Format of the Wallet Instance Attestation Request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To obtain a Wallet Instance Attestation from the wallet
provider (backend) it is necessary to send a Wallet Instance Attestation
Request from the wallet instance containing the associated public key
and a nonce previously requested to avoid replay attacks.

Header
^^^^^^

> +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Reviewer 2: does this render well in sphinx using rst?

if not, please use the template we have for tables

Author: yes, it is compatible. Furthermore, the table was generated with the docs italia [tool](https://docs.italia.it/converti/)

|                                   | Assertion JWT).                   |
|                                   | This parameter is currently       |
|                                   | non-standard as it is not yet     |
|                                   | registered as `IANA Media         |
|                                   | Types <https://www.iana.org/assig |
|                                   | nments/media-types/media-types.xh |
|                                   | tml>`__                           |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| x5c                               | Array containing the X.509        |
|                                   | certificate (and the entire chain |
|                                   | of certificates) used to certify  |
|                                   | the public key of the issuer.     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| trust_chain                       | | Array containing the JWS of the |
|                                   |   trust chain relating to its     |
|                                   |   issuer (Wallet Provider).       |

> |                                   | | ⚠️ This topic will be addressed |

Reviewer 2: trust_chain will be addresses with the first implementation, aside x5c, since x5c will be published in federation entity statements

Author: so advice to delete from here only x5c ?

Reviewer 2: no please keep it just for now :-)

| tos_uri                           | Url to the terms                  |
|                                   | of use of the wallet provider     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| logo_uri                          | Logo url of the wallet provider   |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| asc                               | Attested security context:        |
|                                   | Represents a level of "trust" of  |
|                                   | the service containing a Level Of |
|                                   | Agreement defined in the metadata |
|                                   | of the wallet provider            |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| cnf                               | This parameter contains the JSON  |
|                                   | object called jwk containing the  |
|                                   | public key of the Wallet          |
|                                   | Instance, necessary for the       |
|                                   | holder binding                    |

> +-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Reviewer 2: I think that in the attestation we should put also wallet capabilities as defined here
https://openid.bitbucket.io/connect/openid-4-verifiable-presentations-1_0.html#section-8.1-3

Signature
^^^^^^^^^

The JWT (Wallet Instance Attestation) thus composed is signed using the

> private key of the wallet provider present to which the backend wallet

Reviewer 2: wallet provider is a defined term, please uppercase

> private key of the wallet provider present to which the backend wallet

Reviewer 2: what's the definition of backend wallet?

Author: I rename it to `Wallet Provider's backend`

has access.

Non-normative example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Below is an example of Wallet Instance Attestation:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "5t5YYpBhN-EgIEEI5iUzr6r0MR02LnVQ0OmekmNKcjY",

>     "trust_chain": [],

Reviewer 2: please put here an example trust chain, produced using the python snippet here
https://docs.google.com/document/d/1uL61cfbFsOxC9zMJV81iTTUc7ZOv_WFgLD5Ruyr_fJ8/edit#heading=h.27g2dds1ic0m

+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| homepage_uri      | Organization website                   |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| tos_uri           | Url to the terms of use                |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| policy_uri        | Url to the privacy policy              |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+
| logo_uri          | URL of the organization logo           |
+-------------------+----------------------------------------+

Non-normative example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "5t5YYpBhN-EgIEEI5iUzr6r0MR02LnVQ0OmekmNKcjY",
    "typ": "entity-statement+jwt"
  }
  .
  {
    "iss": "https://wallet.italia.it",
    "sub": "https://wallet.italia.it",
    "jwk": {
      "keys": [
        {
          "crv": "P-256",
          "kty": "EC",
          "x": "qrJrj3Af_B57sbOIRrcBM7br7wOc8ynj7lHFPTeffUk",
          "y": "1H0cWDyGgvU8w-kPKU_xycOCUNT2o0bwslIQtnPU6iM",
          "kid": "5t5YYpBhN-EgIEEI5iUzr6r0MR02LnVQ0OmekmNKcjY"
        }
      ]
    },
    "metadata": {

>       "eudi_wallet_provider": {

Reviewer 2: @grausof 

what about renaming it to openid_wallet_provider?
or oauth_wallet_provider?

              "y": "1H0cWDyGgvU8w-kPKU_xycOCUNT2o0bwslIQtnPU6iM",
              "kid": "5t5YYpBhN-EgIEEI5iUzr6r0MR02LnVQ0OmekmNKcjY"
            }
          ]
        },
        "token_endpoint": "https://wallet.italia.it/token",
        "asc_values_supported": [
          "https://wallet.italia.it/LoA/basic",
          "https://wallet.italia.it/LoA/medium",
          "https://wallet.italia.it/LoA/high"
        ],
        "grant_types_supported": [
          "urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:wallet-instance-attestation"
        ],
        "token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported": [
          "private_key_jwt"
        ],
        "token_endpoint_auth_signing_alg_values_supported": [
          "ES256",
          "ES384",
          "ES512"
        ]
      },
      "federation_entity": {
        "organization_name": "PagoPa S.p.A.",
        "homepage_uri": "https://wallet.italia.it",
        "policy_uri": "https://wallet.italia.it/privacy_policy",
        "tos_uri": "https://wallet.italia.it/info_policy",
        "logo_uri": "https://wallet.italia.it/logo.svg"
      }
    },
    "iat": 1686667326,
    "exp": 1708785726
  }

> Whose corresponding JWT is as follows:

Reviewer 2: let's say JWS, since it is a signed JWT, or `signed JWT`

Verifiable through the public key of the wallet provider itself.

Endpoints
~~~~~~~~~

> The backend wallet that issues the wallet instance attestations must

Reviewer 2: backed wallet is not defined

Reviewer 2: wallet instance attestation is defined, please uppercase

> make available a series of APIs in REST format that follow the OpenId

Reviewer 2: please reword

Federation standard.

Metadata
^^^^^^^^
A **GET /.well-known/openid-federation endpoint** for retrieving the Wallet
Provider Entity Configuration

Wallet Instance Attestation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A second **POST /token** endpoint that takes two parameters as input:

``grant_type`` which in our case is a string:
``urn:ietf:params:oauth:grant-type:wallet-instance-attestation``

``assertion``` which contains the JWT of the Wallet Instance Attestation
Request

The response will then contain the Wallet Instance Attestation

Open API specifications
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: yaml

>   openapi: 3.0.0

Reviewer 2: why is this required, since we have the wallet provider metadata ?

Author: wallet provider metadata only provides the list of endpoints but does not define how to integrate (e.g. POST/GET etc). Maybe in these specifications we can also eliminate this part

Reviewer 2: yes, I agree
we can live without it

.. _wallet-instance-attestation.rst:

Wallet Instance Attestation
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

> Inside a **wallet solution** and, especially with regards

Reviewer 2: wallet solution -> Wallet Solution

> to the **wallet instance**, it is essential to ensure the **authenticity,

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

integrity, security, privacy and trust** in the use of the latter both
by the user and the services connected to it, such as the

> **PID Provider** or one **relying party**.

Reviewer 2: relying party -> Relying Party

General Properties
------------------

The goal is:

> - Ensure that the wallet instance maintains a level of **integrity**,

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

  capable of preventing any attempts of manipulation or forgery
  by unauthorized third parties.
- Make sure the private keys have been generated and stored securely
  within a **trusted execution environment** (TEE).

> - Verify that the wallet instance is **authentic**, i.e. made available

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

>   by an accredited body that complies with the trust model.

Reviewer 2: Trust Model

To guarantee the above, it is necessary for each

> wallet instance to issue a certificate of conformity,

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

> guaranteeing its security and compliance with the trust model.

Reviewer 2: trust model -> Trust Model

This attestation is called **Wallet Instance Attestation**
and must be electronically signed by its issuer.

.. hint::

>   Considering that the wallet instance does not represent an accredited

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

  entity and does not belong to an organization,

>   but resides on the user's device, the trust model,

Reviewer 2: user -> User
trust model -> Trust Model

  based on sustainability and scalability criteria,

>   must delegate to the **Wallet provider** the task of

Reviewer 2: Wallet provider -> Wallet Provider

  issuing the **Wallet Instance Attestation**.

Requirements
------------

We assume the following requirements for the Wallet Instance Attestation:

1. **Efficiency**: The Wallet Instance Attestation should use an efficient
   format such as JSON Web Token (JWT) to ensure light and fast data management

>    and be compliant with the various formats used for EUDIW solutions.

Reviewer 2: EUDIW solutions is not a defined term

2. **Simplicity**: The Wallet Provider should be based on a REST architecture
   for issuing Wallet Instance Attestations.
3. **Public key holder binding**: The Wallet Instance Attestation must be
   securely linked to the Wallet Instance public key.
4. **Issued and signed by an accredited Wallet Provider**:
   The Wallet Instance Attestation must be issued and signed by an accredited
   and reliable Wallet Provider, thus conferring integrity and authenticity
   to the attestation itself.
5. **Authenticity/Genuineness of the wallet instance**:
   The Wallet Instance Attestation must guarantee the integrity

>    and authenticity of the wallet instance, confirming that it was

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

   created and provided correctly by the Wallet Provider. ⚠️
6. **Ability to request multiple claims for several public keys**:

>    Each single wallet instance should be able to request multiple attestations

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

   for different public keys associated with it. This requirement constitutes
   a privacy-preserving measure since the public key may be exploited as a
   tracking tool in the credentials’ disclosure phase
   (see also point 10 below).
7. **Can be used multiple times**:
   The Wallet Instance Attestation should be used multiple times
   during the validity period of the attestation, allowing for repeated
   authentication and authorization without the need to request
   new attestations with each interaction.
8. **Expiration**:
   The Wallet Instance Attestation should have a well-defined expiration date,
   after which it will no longer be considered valid, thus ensuring
   the security and updating of the attestations over time.
9.  **Disability in case of loss/deletion of the public key**:

>     If the public key associated with the wallet instance is lost or deleted,

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

    the attestation automatically becomes invalid to prevent unauthorized

>     use of the wallet instance. ⚠️

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

10. **Pseudonymisation**:
    The attestations are designed to be pseudonymised
    (i.e. they do not contain direct references to the person, so that it
    is not possible to identify them in the absence of additional information
    \- see art. 4(5) GDPR for a comprehensive definition).
    In the absence of such a measure, the use of the attestation on multiple
    RPs would constitute an appreciable risk, as it would theoretically
    allow the RPs to merge databases and track users.
    This requirement enriches the measures adopted in accordance
    with art. 32 GDPR.

.. attention::
  ⚠️ Implementation of points no. 5 and 9 is still under discussion.

>   This version assumes the authenticity and non-revocability of the wallet instance.

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

High-end design
---------------

Static view of the components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. figure:: ../../images/static_view_wallet_instance_attestation.svg

>    :name: wallet solution schema

Reviewer 2: wallet solution -> Wallet Solution

   :alt: the image shows how the Wallet Provider's backend and the

>          wallet instances are contained within the wallet

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance
wallet solution -> Wallet Solution

   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/SyfFKj2rKt3CoKnELR1Io4ZDoSa70000

Dynamic view of the components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
We do not go into the details of the Wallet Provider's backend as
it will be the subject of a subsequent design review. For now, we
will just analyze the format of the Wallet Instance Attestation and
how it is issued by the Wallet Provider's backend.

.. figure:: ../../images/dynamic_view_sequence_wallet_instance_attestation.svg
   :name: sequence diagram for Wallet Instance Attestation request
   :alt: The figure shows the sequence diagram for issuing a Wallet Instance Attestation.
         The steps will be described below.
   :target: https://www.plantuml.com/plantuml/uml/XPB1RjH038RlynIc9v1OSU-XAk9GWSG50RtqucH-HLOJJ_1u6csVdcbsTqG85LVxy-VypjncP_CoZU7DR3nCJ8xqJ6u5WOidBLC72s6kbFGoipfT_SYmA-9CPLk_vt64qsUjKksn8elya-cuVuJ64zA5KEXmKzdhEYmkFCepQ3cXSjOzQ38o_2h8_c4sP5HVRuZGbuaS5ZdSBDqrtS4lixEb9uamck0SsJaitQ5ITT7NSuNwfCwYeiCVDlBZZFoU7d5STufXWdgjGEESHFsyhvf-yYZLXDrIjvATHibUsKl0EoYiqgjwPh4SGbDzChoq_ZeaVSmPvfAKlftoqvVxxu5xbwTrRxV9per--r_HktgGTNANGYup0xI8Gf7p7iuoA7injDPmoSSQr_PEsBwl_OpN0--F_BejOdkHwYvDtNXf3om-g87ZaJnHwfn5IR5idjGjD9Pf_0q0

> - **Message 1**: The end user initializes the wallet instance.

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

  In particular, this process happens when the mobile application
  is launched and every time the end user wants to request or present
  (disclose) a credential.

> - **Message 2-3**: The wallet instance obtains metadata about its wallet

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance
wallet provider -> Wallet Provider

  provider. Among these, we also find the list of supported algorithms,
  public keys, endpoints.

> - **Message 4**: The wallet instance verifies that the Wallet Provider is

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

  trustworthy by resolving the provider's trust chain up to the anchor (⚠️
  this step is skipped in this version)

> - **Message 5-7**: The wallet instance instantiates a new key pair on its TEE

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

  and requests a nonce from the Wallet Provider's backend (as a measure
  against replay attacks)

> - **Message 8**: The wallet instance generates a Wallet Instance Attestation

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

  Request (JWT) signed with the private key associated with the public key

>   for which it wants to obtain the attestation containing the nonce and

Reviewer 2: nonce -> `nonce`

  other useful parameters.

> - **Message 9-13**: The wallet instance sends the Wallet Instance Attestation

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

  Request to the Wallet Provider's backend which verifies its validity and
  issues the signed attestation.

> - **Message 13-14**:The wallet instance receives the wallet instance

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

  attestation signed by the Wallet Provider and proceeds with a formal

>   verification

Reviewer 2: `.` at the end

- **Message 15**:The Wallet Instance Attestation is ready to be consumed

Detail design
---------------

Format of the Wallet Instance Attestation Request
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To obtain a Wallet Instance Attestation from the wallet

Reviewer 2: wallet provider -> Wallet Provider

provider (backend) it is necessary to send a Wallet Instance Attestation
Request from the wallet instance containing the associated public key
and a nonce previously requested to avoid replay attacks.

Header
^^^^^^
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **key**                           | **value**                         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| alg                               | Algorithm to verify the token     |
|                                   | signature (es. ES256)             |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | kid                               | Key id of the wallet instance     |

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| type                              | Media type, in this case, we use  |
|                                   | the value var+jwt (Verifiable     |
|                                   | Assertion Request JWT).           |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Payload
^^^^^^^
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
| **key** | **value**                                  |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| iss    || The public URL of the issuer              |
||        || concatenated with the thumbprint          |

> ||        || of the JWK of the wallet instance         |

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

||        || for which the attestation is              |
||        || being requested                           |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+

> || sub    || The public url of the wallet              |

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

||        || instance attestation issuer.              |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| jti    || Unique identifier of the request.         |
||        || This parameter will be used to            |
||        || avoid replay attacks                      |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
| type    | WalletInstanceAttestationRequest           |
+---------+--------------------------------------------+
|| cnf    || This parameter will contain the           |

> ||        || configuration of the wallet               |

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

||        || instance in JSON format. Among            |
||        || the mandatory attributes there            |
||        || will be the jwk parameter                 |
||        || containing the public key of the          |

> ||        || wallet instance. It will also             |

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

    "cnf": {
      "jwk": {
        "crv": "P-256",
        "kty": "EC",
        "x": "4HNptI-xr2pjyRJKGMnz4WmdnQD_uJSq4R95Nj98b44",
        "y": "LIZnSB39vFJhYgS3k7jXE4r3-CoGFQwZtPBIRqpNlrg",
        "kid": "vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c"
      }
    },
    "iat": 1686645115,
    "exp": 1686652315
  }

Whose corresponding JWS is as follows:

.. code-block:: javascript

  eyJhbGciOiJFUzI1NiIsImtpZCI6InZiZVhKa3NNNDV4cGh0QU5uQ2lHNm1DeXVVNGpmR056b3BHdUt2b2dnOWMiLCJ0eXAiOiJ2YXIrand0In0.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.3KInOD_N4zh5PmXj9QhS5aIVFF8zxMl6326KxDTAFYMPJbweD2ny95Nk6y_xTCOioail2WHDLpF3Rju16Q7Z7Q

> Verifiable through the public key of the wallet instance present in the JWT.

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

Format of the Wallet Instance Attestation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To ensure the above requirements, a JWT was chosen as the format for the
Wallet Instance Attestation. Let's see below the various fields that
compose it

Header
^^^^^^

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **key**                           | **value**                         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| alg                               | Algorithm to verify the token     |
|                                   | signature (es. ES256)             |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | kid                               | Key id used by the wallet         |

Reviewer 2: wallet provider -> Wallet Provider

|                                   | provider to sign the attestation  |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| type                              | Media type, in this case we use   |
|                                   | the value va+jwt (Verifiable      |
|                                   | Assertion JWT).                   |
|                                   | This parameter is currently       |
|                                   | non-standard as it is not yet     |
|                                   | registered as `IANA Media         |
|                                   | Types <https://www.iana.org/assig |
|                                   | nments/media-types/media-types.xh |

> |                                   | tml>`__                           |

Reviewer 2: `.` at the end

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| x5c                               | Array containing the X.509        |
|                                   | certificate (and the entire chain |
|                                   | of certificates) used to certify  |
|                                   | the public key of the issuer.     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| trust_chain                       | | Array containing the JWS of the |
|                                   |   trust chain relating to its     |
|                                   |   issuer (Wallet Provider).       |
|                                   | | ⚠️ This topic will be addressed |
|                                   |   at a later stage                |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Payload
^^^^^^^

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **key**                           | **value**                         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | iss                               | The public url of the wallet      |

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

|                                   | instance attestation issuer. (see |
|                                   | example below)                    |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| sub                               | The public url of the issuer      |
|                                   | concatenated with the thumbprint  |

> |                                   | of the JWK of the wallet instance |

Reviewer 2: wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

|                                   | for which the attestation is      |
|                                   | being issued                      |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| iat                               | Timestamp of issue of the         |
|                                   | attestation                       |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| exp                               | Attestation expiration timestamp. |
|                                   | A good practice to avoid security |
|                                   | problems is to have a limited     |
|                                   | duration of the attestation.      |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| type                              | String:                           |
|                                   | "WalletInstanceAttestation"       |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| policy_uri                        | Url to the privacy policy         |

> |                                   | of the wallet                     |

Reviewer 2: wallet -> Wallet Solution or PRovider

| logo_uri                          | Logo url of the Wallet Provider   |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| asc                               | Attested security context:        |
|                                   | Represents a level of "trust" of  |
|                                   | the service containing a Level Of |
|                                   | Agreement defined in the metadata |
|                                   | of the Wallet Provider            |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| cnf                               | This parameter contains the JSON  |
|                                   | the payload of which is shown     |
|                                   | below                             |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

Payload of `cnf`
''''''''''''''''

+-----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
| **key**               | **value**                                       |
+-----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+

> || jwk                  || The public key of the Wallet                   |

Reviewer 2: Wallet instance -> Wallet Instance

||                      || instance necessary for the                     |
||                      || holder binding                                 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+
|| vp_formats_supported || The Verifiable Credential and                  |
||                      || Verifiable Presentation formats                |

> ||                      || supported by the Wallet                        |

Reviewer 2: Wallet -> Wallet Provider or Solution

||                      || See paragraph. 8.1 of                          |
||                      || OpenID for Verifiable Presentations - draft 19 |
+-----------------------+-------------------------------------------------+

Signature
^^^^^^^^^

The JWT (Wallet Instance Attestation) thus composed is signed using the

> private key of the Wallet Provider present to which the Wallet Provider's

Reviewer 2: as already mentioned in a PR of @balanza

if we don't define wallet provider backend or wallet backed we should remove the term backend relying only to Wallet Provider

Author: done!

backend has access.

Non-normative example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Below is an example of Wallet Instance Attestation:

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
    "alg": "ES256",
    "kid": "5t5YYpBhN-EgIEEI5iUzr6r0MR02LnVQ0OmekmNKcjY",
    "trust_chain": [
      "eyJhbGciOiJFUz...6S0A",
      "eyJhbGciOiJFUz...jJLA",
      "eyJhbGciOiJFUz...H9gw",
    ],
    "typ": "va+jwt",
    "x5c": ["MIIBjDCCATGgAwIBAgIUZiFoj7bvmhTQvDQtCOY19fMVq/gwCgYIKoZIzj0EAwIwGzEZMBcGA1UEAwwQd2FsbGV0Lml0YWxpYS5pdDAeFw0yMzA2MTMxNDI1NDRaFw0yNjAzMDkxNDI1NDRaMBsxGTAXBgNVBAMMEHdhbGxldC5pdGFsaWEuaXQwWTATBgcqhkjOPQIBBggqhkjOPQMBBwNCAASqsmuPcB/8Hnuxs4hGtwEztuvvA5zzKePuUcU9N599SdR9HFg8hoL1PMPpDylP8cnDglDU9qNG8LJSELZz1Oojo1MwUTAdBgNVHQ4EFgQUj5fkXeflngzbABlwT6ra1bOQ11cwHwYDVR0jBBgwFoAUj5fkXeflngzbABlwT6ra1bOQ11cwDwYDVR0TAQH/BAUwAwEB/zAKBggqhkjOPQQDAgNJADBGAiEA+avjz/CVnxq+50iAxKLjyRvK/W9XgCp6cKDXs7Y4tugCIQDMWGYL0adwYKhKitYsk8HRIKFDGOZmqZFI35XFehgKQA=="]
  }
  .
  {
    "iss": "https://wallet.italia.it",
    "sub": "https://wallet.italia.it/instance/vbeXJksM45xphtANnCiG6mCyuU4jfGNzopGuKvogg9c",

>     "type": "WalletInstanceAttestation",

Reviewer 2: following PID rulebook v1.0.0:

**3.2 Document type and namespace**

Like any other attestation, a Wallet Instance Attestation needs a document type and a  namespace. The document type “eu.europa.ec.eudiw.wallet-instance.1” SHALL be used for this  purpose, and the namespace “eu.europa.ec.eudiw.wallet-instance.1” SHALL be used to identify data elements in this Wallet Instance Attestation.  

@grausof let's talk about this before taking a decision

Author: Based on what has been done for the PID which is currently `eu.eudiw.pid.it` we can use as type for Wallet Instance Attestation:`eu.eudiw.attestation.it` and for Wallet Instance Attestation Request: `eu.eudiw.attestation-request.it`

Verifiable through the following public key (Wallet Provider Public Key)
obtained within the Entity Configuration of the Wallet Provider,

> attested in the related Trust Chain

Reviewer 2: we have written trust chain everywhere, then Trust Chain -> trust chain

.. code-block:: javascript

  {
  "kty": "EC",
  "x": "qrJrj3Af_B57sbOIRrcBM7br7wOc8ynj7lHFPTeffUk",
  "y": "1H0cWDyGgvU8w-kPKU_xycOCUNT2o0bwslIQtnPU6iM",
  "crv": "P-256"
  }

Format of the Wallet Provider Entity Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The Wallet Provider Entity Configuration is a JWT containing all the metadata
relating to the Wallet Provider such as the public keys, the supported algorithms,
the type of entity (in addition to the Wallet Provider, for example, it could also

> be a relying party) and the list of the available endpoints.

Reviewer 2: relying party -> Relying Party

> It broadly implements openid-federation protocol.

Reviewer 2: openid-federation -> `OIDC-FED`_

Header
^^^^^^
+---------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| **key** | **value**                                                      |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| alg     | Algorithm to verify the token signature (es. ES256)            |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| kid     | Thumbprint of the public key used for signing                  |
+---------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| type    | Media type, in this case, we use the entity-statement+jwt value|
+---------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

Payload
^^^^^^^
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| **key**                           | **value**                         |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | iss                               | The public url of the wallet      |

Reviewer 2: wallet provider -> Wallet Provider

|                                   | provider                          |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+

> | sub                               | The public url of the wallet      |

Reviewer 2: wallet provider -> Wallet Provider

|                                   | provider                          |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| iat                               | Configuration release timestamp   |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| exp                               | Configuration expiration          |

> |                                   | timestamp.                        |

Reviewer 2: sometimes you add `.` at the end of the line, sometimes not

please align this accordingly by adding trailing points everywhere

+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| jwks                              | Containing the keys attribute     |
|                                   | which is an array of all the      |
|                                   | public keys associated with the   |
|                                   | domain (they could also match     |
|                                   | those of the Wallet Provider)     |
+-----------------------------------+-----------------------------------+
| metadata                          | This attribute will contain for   |
|                                   | each entity its own               |
|                                   | configuration. In our case we     |

> |                                   | will have for now the wallet      |

Reviewer 2: wallet provider -> Wallet Provider

||                                   || the certified security context.   |
||                                   || These values define a level of    |
||                                   || assurance about the security of   |
||                                   || the app. In particular we will    |
||                                   || mainly have 3 values associated   |
||                                   || with low, medium and high         |
||                                   || security. An attested security    |
||                                   || context is defined according to   |
||                                   || the proof that the wallet         |
||                                   || instance is able to send to the   |
||                                   || Wallet Provider.                  |
+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|| grant_types_supported             || The type of grants supported by   |
||                                   || the endpoint token. Therefore,    |
||                                   || for the Wallet Provider the token |

> ||                                   || is equivalent only to the wallet  |

Reviewer 2: wallet instance attestation -> Wallet Instance Attestation

||                                   || instance attestation, therefore   |
||                                   || this attribute will contain an    |
||                                   || array with only one element:      |
||                                   || client-assertion-type:            |

> ||                                   || jwt-key-attestation               |

Reviewer 2: jwt-key-attestation -> `jwt-key-attestation`

+------------------------------------+------------------------------------+
|| token_endpoint_auth_methods_suppo || Supported authentication method   |
|| rted                              || for the endpoint token. In our    |

> ||                                   || case it's just private_key_jwt    |

Reviewer 2: private_key_jwt -> `private_key_jwt`

Reviewer 2: sorry, in RST it is double `, so ``private_key_jwt``
